## Playbook incident response

The playbook is a manual that provides details about any operational action, also clarify what tools should be used in response to a security incident.
One of the playbooks used in cybersecurity is the Incident Response Playbook. Incident response is an organization's quick attempt to identify an attack, contain the damage and correct the effects of a security breach.
Let's talk about the phases:
*   Preparation: organizations must prepare to mitigate the likelihood, risk and impact of a security incident by documenitng procedures, establishing staffing plans and educating users.
*   Detection and analysis: the objective is to detect and analyze events using defined processes and technology.
*   Containment: his goal is to prevent further damage and reduce the immediate impact of a security incident. During this phase security professionals take actions to contain an incident and minimize damage.
*   Eradication and recovery: this phase involves the complete removal of an incident's artifacts so thaty an organization can return to normal operations. Security professionals eliminate artifacts of the incident by removing malocious code and mitigating vulnerabilities.
*   Post incident activity: includes documenting the incident, informing organizational leadership and applying lessons learned to ensure that an organization is better prepared to handle future incidents.
*   Coordination: involves reporting incidents and sharing information based on the organization's established standards.

## Use SIEM and Playbook together

Playbooks can be very detailed and may include flow charts and tables to clarify what actions to take and in which order

*   Asses the alert: means determining if the alerts is actually valid by identifying why the alert was generated by the SIEM. This can be done analyzing log data and related metrics.
*   Contain and reduce more damage: instruct how to isolate or disconnect the infected network system to prevent the malware from spreading into other parts of the network.
*   Eliminate the incident and restore
Post-incident activities and coordination efforts

## SOAR and Playbook

SOAR is a piece of software used to automate repetitive tasks generated by tools such as SIEM or managed detection and response(MDR).